Catch the Oscar contender “Mudbound” on Netflix. Or watch Matt LeBlanc talk cars and burn rubber in the new season of “Top Gear.” MUDBOUND (2017) on Netflix. Set in the Mississippi Delta in the years after World War II, this drama by the director Dee Rees revolves around the Jacksons, black tenant farmers, and the McAllans, a white family that owns the land the Jacksons work. The plot twists and turns, but the heart of the story is the relationship between Jamie McAllan (Garrett Hedlund) and Ronsel Jackson (Jason Mitchell), combat veterans who return home only to be reminded that their friendship doesn’t bode well in the Jim Crow era. Adapted from the 2008 novel by Hillary Jordan, the film earned four Oscar nominations and broke new ground when Rachel Morrison, the director of photography, became the first woman to be nominated for best cinematography. In his review, A. O. Scott named the movie a Critic’s Pick and wrote, “It’s a work of historical imagination that lands in the present with disquieting, illuminating force.”1984 (1984) on iTunes, Amazon and Hulu. If you haven’t read the classic dystopian novel by George Orwell, stop what you’re doing and find a copy. Soak it all in, then come back to this column. The story of a totalitarian state ruled by Big Brother made a strong comeback last year for its prescient themes. And this film adaptation by Michael Radford is just as enduring. John Hurt plays a government worker who rewrites history to align with the Inner Party’s policies. His dreary routine is shaken up by a brief love affair with another government worker (Suzanna Hamilton), but their rebellious romance is no match for Big Brother’s Thought Police. “This ‘1984’ is not an easy film to watch,” Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times, “but it exerts a fascination that demands attention even as you want to turn away from it.”TOP GEAR 10:30 p.m. on BBC America. The last couple of years have been bumpy for this popular car show. Its longtime host, Jeremy Clarkson, was suspended in 2015 after “a fracas” with a BBC producer. Unable to save the program from low ratings, Mr. Clarkson’s successor, Chris Evans, stepped down in 2016. “Top Gear” then welcomed its first American co-host: Matt LeBlanc, who holds the show’s record for fastest celebrity lap. Mr. LeBlanc returns in this season premiere alongside the British journalists Chris Harris and Rory Reid. The second episode will air in its regular weekly slot, 8 p.m. on Sunday.SATURDAY STACK: CLASSIC SOUL 1 p.m. on AXS TV. Settle in for a marathon of programming on soul artists, beginning with the documentary “The Story of James Brown.”