PBS pays tribute to America’s favorite neighbor. And the comic Gad Elmaleh returns to Netflix with a new special.MISTER ROGERS: IT’S YOU I LIKE 8 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). This tribute special celebrates the 50th anniversary of the beloved children’s show “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood,” with celebrities like Michael Keaton, Yo-Yo Ma and Sarah Silverman looking back at their favorite segments. The cardigan-clad Fred Rogers, who died in 2003, touched generations of children for more than 30 years with his warm, instructive approach and positive messages. For a quick recap, The New York Times picked five memorable moments from over the years. Keep tissues handy.KEVIN (PROBABLY) SAVES THE WORLD 10 p.m. on ABC. This dramedy’s title (probably) could have been better. Luckily its star, Jason Ritter, makes up for it. Mr. Ritter portrays Kevin, an unlikely hero who returns to his hometown after a suicide attempt and meets a guardian angel (Kimberly Hébert Gregory) whose mission is to help Kevin restore goodness in the world. In her review for The Times, Margaret Lyons wrote that the series “seems to be taking on, well, the world, and it might be too much for one show. But darned it if it doesn’t inspire a little bit of hope.” In this season finale, Kevin faces relationship problems while helping a stranger fulfill his dead uncle’s burial wishes. Leslie Jones guest stars as a celestial being.GAD ELMALEH: AMERICAN DREAM (2018) on Netflix. The Moroccan-born comedian Gad Elmaleh recycles material from his French-language Netflix special “Gad Gone Wild” for his first special in English, “The American Dream.” Mr. Elmaleh first made a name for himself in France, where he performed for more than 20 years before bringing his animated performances to the United States. During this routine, filmed at Town Hall in Manhattan, Mr. Elmaleh discusses his move from Paris to New York, pokes fun at the English language and playfully mocks American dating conventions.CRASH (2005) on iTunes, Amazon and Hulu. The lives of seemingly unrelated strangers intertwine over the course of 36 hours in this directorial debut by Paul Haggis. Set in Los Angeles, the film is a meditation on race told through a horizontal narrative with one too many characters. It boasts a star-studded cast, led by Terrence Howard, Matt Dillon and Don Cheadle, and won three Oscars, including best picture. But not everyone is a fan of its moralistic themes. In his review, A. O. Scott wrote that “Crash” is “a frustrating movie: full of heart and devoid of life; crudely manipulative when it tries hardest to be subtle; and profoundly complacent in spite of its intention to unsettle and disturb.”