It was a quiet day at Video Room, the 500-square-foot independent video store on 80th Street and Third Avenue. But that was nothing new.Video Room is considered one of the first — and now one of the last — storefronts in the city that rents movies. (A few others remain, including We Deliver Videos, also on the Upper East Side, and Video Free Brooklyn, which closed its Cobble Hill address in 2016, but is supposed to reopen soon inside of the Alamo Drafthouse Downtown Brooklyn.)At its peak — the mid-1980s through the early ’90s — Video Room, then located on 84th Street and Third Avenue, had about six people at the counter, with phones trilling endlessly and lines of customers.Now, usually one employee works the counter to help the occasional walk-in.The business started out in the early ’70s as a stereo store and then, in 1979, converted to videos, including art-house films, said Peter Feingold, 48, the owner. “When everyone wanted ‘The Last Temptation Of Christ,’ you couldn’t get it at Blockbuster, you could only get it here.” (Or probably downtown at Kim’s Video, which opened in the ’80s and closed in 2014.)The store has always offered free delivery and pickup of its movies (an $89 annual membership buys 12 films, including the delivery service; videos can be rented a la carte, too). “We knew people ordered food — why not do the same with tapes? — and that worked very well,” Mr. Feingold said. “There was no internet, no on-demand, no nothing. It was either go to the movies or rent a video.”That of course changed.In January, the store stopped renting VHS tapes. Since 1997, it has specialized in DVD rentals, but now also offers a digital tape transfer service.“About 50 people a week come in with tapes that they want converted to digital or their iPhones,” Mr. Feingold said. “People bring in tons and tons of slides, old eight-millimeter and super-eight films and video.”On a recent afternoon, James Tozer, 12, wandered in with his sitter. “Do you have games?” he asked.“Nope. Sorry,” Mr. Feingold said.A few moments later Mr. Tozer reappeared with two DVDs: Hayao Miyazaki’s “Pòrco Rósso” and a vintage Mickey Mouse film. “Can I buy these?”“No, they’re for rent,” Mr. Feingold said.“I wish they were for sale,” said James, who had decided not to rent the films. “Because it would be like a week or two before I watched them,” he explained, adding, “When you’ve got a store like this, it’s nice that you can look at the boxes and see what you’re getting.”“People like to go to a place and read boxes. The reading of the boxes is the key to everything,” said Howard Salen, 67, who has been a Video Room employee since 1986.“We rent to people who want something specific: foreign films, classic American films, things that Netflix probably won’t have,” Mr. Salen said. “The BBC and other foreign TV series are our most popular.” The store has at least 5,000 foreign titles and 20,000 DVD titles, he said. They are all located behind the counter, unboxed, alphabetized and slipped into thin plastic sleeves.“We do a lot of special orders,” Mr. Salen said. “If someone has a paper for film school on Bernardo Bertolucci, we’re going to have 80 to 100 percent of his films.”But is that enough to keep customers coming back?“Rentals are going to eventually be obsolete,” Mr. Feingold said. “Right now we’re concentrating on the transfer work that we’re doing.”Just then, the phone rang. Someone was calling for a great movie starring Ginger Rogers that wasn’t a musical. Mr. Salen immediately had two suggestions: George Stevens’ “Vivacious Lady” and Billy Wilder’s “The Major and the Minor.”