“American Idol” is back, with three new judges. And “Timeless” visits Marie Curie and the French front in World War I. AMERICAN IDOL 8 p.m. on ABC. You didn’t really think “American Idol” was going away, did you? Two years after Fox announced the cultural behemoth would come to a close after 15 seasons, here it is back again on ABC. Ryan Seacrest is still around despite a swirl of controversy, but the judges box looks decidedly different, with Katy Perry, Lionel Richie and Luke Bryan calling the shots. Ms. Perry will bring bursts of zaniness, while Mr. Richie will bring the sage perspective of an older generation. “For two days a week, Professor Richie is going to talk about the reality of what it takes to be an artist,” he said in an interview with The New York Times.O.J. SIMPSON: THE LOST CONFESSION? 8 p.m. on Fox. In 2006, the editor and talk show host Judith Regan conducted an interview with O.J. Simpson in which he gave a hypothetical account of how he might have been involved in the murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman. But the interview — and the accompanying book, “If I Did It” — were pulled after an uproar. Now, Fox will run the interview, along with a panel segment with experts analyzing the footage. Ms. Regan will be on the panel, which will also include Christopher Darden, a prosecutor in the Simpson case. Soledad O’Brien hosts the two-hour special.IHEARTRADIO MUSIC AWARDS 8 p.m. on TBS, TNT and TruTV. The iHeartRadio Music Awards are typically a breezy, bubbly and youthful affair, and this year should be no different, with the show anchored by performances from two of 2017’s most explosive newcomers: Cardi B and Camila Cabello. Ed Sheeran, Eminem, N.E.R.D. and Kehlani will also perform, and Chance the Rapper will receive the Innovator Award. Taylor Swift, largely quiet since the release of her sixth album “Reputation,” will debut her music video for the slinky “Delicate,” from that album.TIMELESS 10 p.m. on NBC. On Thursday, The Times published some obituaries for remarkable women as part of a series called “Overlooked.” The second season of “Timeless” similarly sheds light on underappreciated women and people of color throughout history, using a time-travel premise to hop in and out of different eras. Abigail Spencer, Malcolm Barrett and Matt Lanter star as three people on a mission to stop a nefarious villain from changing the course of American history. In this episode, they find themselves alongside Marie Curie on the French battlefront during World War I, as she attempts to save as many lives as possible.