Brett Morgen’s documentary about the British scientist Jane Goodall is on National Geographic. And Oprah Winfrey appears with the “A Wrinkle in Time” co-stars Mindy Kaling and Reese Witherspoon on “The Late Late Show.” JANE (2017) 8 p.m. on National Geographic and Nat Geo Wild. When Jane Goodall journeyed into the forests of East Africa to research chimpanzees, it was the early 1960s, she was 26 and had no scientific degree. But, despite her lack of traditional training, Ms. Goodall’s quiet observations of primate interactions would help significantly deepen human understanding of chimps and our connections to them. Brett Morgen (“Kurt Cobain: Montage of Heck”) directs this documentary, which consists primarily of historical footage of Ms. Goodall taken by the wildlife photographer Hugo van Lawick, Ms. Goodall’s first husband. In his review for The New York Times, Ben Kenigsberg wrote that the film “is such an absorbing account of her experiences at a reserve in what is now Tanzania that you may not pause to think about how its imagery was captured.” It has a score by Philip Glass, and includes a present-day interview with Ms. Goodall. Now in her 80s, she has spent her career pursuing her research and living as an outspoken conservationist. “It is a jolly tough way to live,” she told The Times in 2010, “but it’s worthwhile.”THE LATE LATE SHOW WITH JAMES CORDEN 12:35 a.m. (Tuesday) on CBS. The post-Golden Globes shouts of “Oprah 2020” may have slowed, but it’s hard to imagine that the topic won’t at least be alluded to when Oprah Winfrey appears on “The Late Late Show.” Ms. Winfrey plays the role of Mrs. Which in the Ava DuVernay-directed Disney film adaptation of the children’s novel “A Wrinkle in Time,” which opened over the weekend. Her co-stars Mindy Kaling (whose new sitcom, “Champions,” began last week) and Reese Witherspoon will also appear on the show.MIDDLE OF NOWHERE (2012) on Netflix and Amazon. If you liked Ava DuVernay’s adaptation of “A Wrinkle in Time” — or for a primer on the director before you see that film — a natural place to start is with her breakthrough movie, about a nurse, Ruby (Emayatzy Corinealdi), whose husband, Derek (Omari Hardwick), has been given a multiyear prison sentence. In her review for The Times, Manohla Dargis called the film “a plaintive, slow-boiling, quietly soul-stirring drama about a woman coming into her own.” Its cast includes David Oyelowo, who plays a bus driver. Ms. DuVernay’s prison documentary “13th” (2016) is also available on Netflix, and her historical drama “Selma” (2014), which stars Mr. Oyelowo as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., can been watched on Amazon.