Our guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. Plus, a Times Talks event. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.MICHEL PICCOLI at Film Forum (March 16-22). It’s a tad cute to ascribe symmetry to the career of the French star Michel Piccoli, but one can draw a line from his work in “Contempt” (on Saturday) — the 1964 Jean-Luc Godard masterpiece in which he plays a screenwriter whose marriage disintegrates during a production of “The Odyssey” — to “I’m Going Home” (on Thursday), Manoel de Oliveira’s 2002 portrait of a grieving theater actor near the end of his life, vexed after being abruptly cast in a film production of James Joyce’s “Ulysses.” Film Forum’s retrospective goes heavy on marquee directors: It features Mr. Piccoli’s collaborations with Luis Buñuel (“Diary of a Chambermaid,” showing on Tuesday), Jacques Demy (“Une Chambre en Ville,” on Sunday, and “The Young Girls of Rochefort,” on Sunday and Tuesday) and Marco Ferreri (“Dillinger Is Dead,” on Wednesday and March 23, and “La Grande Bouffe,” from Saturday to Monday and on Thursday), plus another chance to catch the recent revival of Jacques Rivette’s great “La Belle Noiseuse” (on Monday).212-727-8110, filmforum.org‘POINT COUNTERPOINT: AVANT-GARDE FILM SCORES, 1955-1973’ at the Museum of Modern Art (through March 22). MoMA’s film department makes its contribution to “The ’60s: The Years That Changed America,” the citywide cultural festival organized by Carnegie Hall and inspired by the biographer Robert A. Caro. The focus here is on a shift that the decade brought with the increasing use of avant-garde and modern classical scores. Each screening revolves around a particular composer or composers. The Hanns Eisler and Krzysztof Penderecki program (on Sunday and Monday), for instance, will include “Night and Fog,” Alain Resnais’s powerful half-hour postwar documentary on concentration camps, with music by Mr. Eisler, while the Toru Takemitsu program (on Monday) will feature Hiroshi Teshigahara’s eerie allegory “Woman in the Dunes.”212-708-9400, moma.org¡SÍ SE PUEDE!: PIONEERS OF CHICANO CINEMA at BAM Rose Cinemas (March 16-22). BAM’s tribute to Mexican-American cinema opens with “Zoot Suit” (on Friday), the director Luis Valdez’s stylized adaptation of his own stage production from Los Angeles and Broadway, based on the trial of a group of Mexican-Americans that started in the fall of 1942 and preceded the 1943 Zoot Suit Riots. The retrospective also features three films from Gregory Nava, including the celebrated independent production “El Norte” (on Sunday), which follows a Guatemalan brother and sister’s immigration to the United States. Another landmark indie is Efraín Gutiérrez’s “Please, Don’t Bury Me Alive!” (on Monday), added in 2014 to the National Film Registry of the Library of Congress, which noted that Mr. Gutiérrez’s movie was “considered by historians to be the first Chicano feature film.”718-636-4100, bam.org