A familiar story is back in a different furry body. And a documentary explores Adderall addiction in the United States. BENJI on Netflix. We live in an era of reboots and also an era of canine obsession. Put those two together and you get this remake of 1974’s “Benji,” starring a very smart and adorable mutt with droopy, shaggy ears; he is adopted by two children and their disapproving mother. But when the children are kidnapped, it’s up to the pup to crack the case and bring them home. “As cute animal movies go, ‘Benji’ is adult-watchable, and most likely child catnip,” Glenn Kenny wrote in his Streaming column in The New York Times.TAKE YOUR PILLS on Netflix. Two years ago, in The New York Times Magazine, Casey Schwartz wrote about a phenomenon she termed Generation Adderall and recounted her experience with the medication: Initially it caused euphoria and laser focus but soon led to addiction and panic attacks. “I lived a paradox, believing that the drug was indispensable to my very survival while also knowing that it was nothing short of toxic,” she wrote. This special delves into the prevalence of Adderall and other cognitive-enhancement drugs and their effects on college campuses and American culture, as they earn billions of dollars for the pharmaceutical industry.KEVIN HART: WHAT THE FIT on YouTube. Kevin Hart frequently posts videos of his strict athletic routine on Instagram, and two years ago he assisted Conan O’Brien with a workout on an episode of “Conan,” featuring medicine balls, high kicks and a few choice insults (“You have the body of a Dutch woman”). He’ll take the same mixture of high-intensity motivation and absurdist comedy to this new series, in which he works out with celebrity friends. Watch him play basketball with Jack Black, lift weights with James Corden and do goat yoga with Khloé Kardashian; Mr. O’Brien, of course, will be back for more high jinks.STRIKING OUT on Acorn TV. Get into the St. Patrick’s Day spirit with this Dublin-set drama, in which Tara, a lawyer (Amy Huberman), starts life over after discovering her fiancé is cheating on her. The second season begins on Friday, as Tara pursues new cases with her own firm and gets a steely new collaborator and antagonist (played by Maria Doyle Kennedy). There will be plenty of family drama, as well as vivid shots of the city skyline. “It’s as if Dublin were auditioning for a best-places-to-visit-in-2017 feature,” Mike Hale wrote in his review in The Times.