Christiane Amanpour identifies universal aspects of relationships in a new series. And the lustful melodrama “The Beguiled” arrives on HBO. CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR: SEX & LOVE AROUND THE WORLD 10 p.m. on CNN. Christiane Amanpour, CNN’s chief international correspondent and the anchor of the global affairs program “Amanpour,” takes a turn toward the intimate in this new six-part series. Each episode brings her to a different country in Asia, Europe and Africa to explore carnal taboos and norms. Her first stop is Tokyo, where she gasps at 17th-century erotic art, interviews a hotel health worker and attends a host club that offers “private hospitality” to women. Given that Anthony Bourdain is among the show’s executive producers, it’s no surprise that the style is reminiscent of “Parts Unknown” — with a sensual twist.NYC ST. PATRICK’S DAY PARADE 11 a.m. on NBC 4 New York; also on NBCNewYork.com. A green sea of New Yorkers washes over Fifth Avenue to celebrate the city’s 257th parade.THE BEGUILED (2017) 8 p.m. on HBO; also on iTunes, Amazon and HBO streaming platforms. Colin Farrell plays Cpl. John McBurney, a wounded Union soldier who’s taken in by a group of Confederate women at an all-girls boarding school. Unsure whether he’s a prisoner or a guest while waiting for his wounds to heal, John tries to manipulate some of his secluded hosts (Nicole Kidman, Kirsten Dunst and Elle Fanning) to win their favor. Only his seduction leads them all down a dangerous path. Unlike the 1971 original feature starring Clint Eastwood, this adaptation by Sofia Coppola “is less interested in battling repression than in observing its mechanisms and arguing, quietly and unmistakably, for its virtues,” A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times.CROOKED HOUSE (2017) on iTunes and Amazon. Two big screen adaptations revived Agatha Christie’s work last year. First came “Murder on the Orient Express,” which opened to mixed reviews. Then came a take on the 1949 novel “Crooked House” from the director Gilles Paquet-Brenner. It follows an investigation into the death of a wealthy patriarch, led by the private detective Charles Hayward (Max Irons). Charles is called upon by his former lover, the patriarch’s granddaughter Sophia (Stefanie Martini), to unspool the mystery before Scotland Yard arrives. He soon realizes that every member of the wicked family could be a suspect. Glenn Close, Terence Stamp and Christina Hendricks round out the cast.