Two documentaries shine a light on the lives of celebrated writers: the groundbreaking playwright Arthur Miller and the inimitable film critic Roger Ebert. ARTHUR MILLER: WRITER (2018) 8 p.m. on HBO; also on HBO streaming platforms. The director Rebecca Miller first started shooting videotapes of her father, the playwright Arthur Miller, when she was just 21. More than 30 years later, Ms. Miller has woven that footage with intimate interviews and decades’ worth of archival gems for this new documentary. “I realize, you know, that this is my sixth film, but it’s also my first film,” she said in an interview with The New York Times. “I spent 18 months cutting it. It was quite an emotional process for me.” The portrait covers the traumatic events that affected the writer early on, his relationship with Marilyn Monroe and his 40-year marriage to the Magnum photographer Inge Morath.EPIC WARRIOR WOMEN 8 p.m. on Smithsonian. Television’s first Wonder Woman, Lynda Carter, narrates this documentary series on storied female fighters who came well before DC Comics’ Diana Prince. This premiere revolves around the horse-riding Amazon warriors who roamed the Eurasian grasslands and protected their vast territory from the powers of Greece, China and Persia.THE VOICE 8 p.m. on NBC. The Season 14 battle rounds begin. Carson Daly hosts as contestants team up for duets.SILICON VALLEY: THE UNTOLD STORY 8 p.m. on Science. Discover how Silicon Valley spawned technological breakthroughs in three back-to-back episodes of this documentary series. Some of today’s biggest innovators weigh in on the industry’s history, including its failures.LIFE ITSELF (2014) on iTunes, Amazon and Hulu. When Steve James started this documentary, he originally envisioned an adaptation of the 2011 memoir by the Pulitzer Prize-winning film critic Roger Ebert. That plan changed when Mr. Ebert, who had cancer, died five months into production. The result, “Life Itself,” juxtaposes scenes of an indefatigable Mr. Ebert in his final moments with clips from his earlier years as a leading voice in American cinema — a critic for The Chicago Sun-Times and co-host of “At the Movies.” Writing in The Times, Geoffrey O’Brien named the film a Critic’s Pick.