WASHINGTON — Growing up in New York, Sam Nunberg loved the tabloids, and was dazzled by the real estate developer who dominated them.He admired Donald J. Trump, the crude-talking billionaire who did not seem to care what others thought as he shot from the hip in interviews with Howard Stern and held court on professional wrestling specials. Years later, after campaigning for Mitt Romney and making contacts in conservative circles, Mr. Nunberg was one of the first people to take the idea of a Trump presidential campaign seriously.“I’d followed him for years,” Mr. Nunberg, 36, said of Mr. Trump. “I was heavily invested into that campaign. I didn’t care what the Republican National Committee people thought.”When he came aboard early in the campaign, he already had a mentor in Roger J. Stone Jr., who self-identified as a dirty trickster. He helped craft some of Mr. Trump’s most hard-line rhetoric that was rolled out during the campaign, including the idea of a border wall. And he was involved in writing Mr. Trump’s tweets ahead of the presidential run, developing them as a tool to amplify his voice.But in 2014, before the campaign had officially begun, Mr. Nunberg became one of its first casualties, and after a brief return he was fired again. On Monday, he resurfaced, apparently bearing grievances. He delivered a series of bizarre televised interviews describing his initial unwillingness to share what he knows about the campaign’s early days with the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is investigating the campaign’s ties to Russian officials. Among other off-the-cuff declarations, Mr. Nunberg said that the president may have “done something” during the campaign in regard to Russia.“The president very well might not have done anything,” Mr. Nunberg said on Tuesday about the possibility of Russian collusion. “But he could’ve. That’s why we have an independent counsel.”Mr. Nunberg said that he was subpoenaed to go before a grand jury on Friday, but it is unclear from his bombastic interviews whether he has information that will prove valuable to Mr. Mueller, or whether he is a campaign aide simply nursing old wounds in a manner designed to grab a cable-obsessed president’s attention.Just as Mr. Nunberg became a prototype of sorts for a certain type of aide Mr. Trump attracted — unfailingly devoted, politically on the fringe and potentially volatile — he may prove to be an unpredictable witness for the same reasons the president’s anxiety over the investigation continues to grow.Mr. Nunberg’s time with the Trump campaign was brief but consequential. He was there at the beginning and would be in a position to tell Mr. Mueller about the campaign’s origins, including the roles played by campaign officials who were also there at the time.In the campaign’s early months in 2015, Mr. Trump publicly predicted that he would “get along very well” with Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president. And at a National Rifle Association event that April, Mr. Trump met Alexander Torshin, the deputy governor of the Russian central bank who has been linked to both Russia’s security services and organized crime, according to Mr. Torshin.Mr. Torshin would later try to broker a “backdoor” meeting with the campaign. Mr. Mueller and congressional investigators have obtained emails relating to the campaign’s contacts with Mr. Torshin.Mr. Nunberg has been asked to provide information from Nov. 1, 2015, through the present about Mr. Trump and several of his aides, including his communications director, Hope Hicks; Corey Lewandowski, his former campaign manager; Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s former chief strategist; Mr. Trump’s longtime bodyguard, Keith Schiller; and Michael D. Cohen, the former Trump Organization lawyer.In a somewhat Trumpian fashion, Mr. Nunberg, in an interview, seemed more interested in the spectacle he created this week than the legal ramifications of vowing to tear up a subpoena from Mr. Mueller’s team on live television.“I do believe that Donald Trump and Roger Stone are right: No publicity is bad publicity,” Mr. Nunberg said. “To me, it made for good TV, and everybody’s talking about me.”(He added that Gary D. Cohn’s departure from the White House had probably bumped him from the news.)Mr. Nunberg described his TV appearances on Monday as “just me letting loose.” He was red-faced, defiant and nonchalant about being asked to provide documents and appear before the special counsel. Erin Burnett, the CNN anchor, asked him if he had been drinking, because she smelled alcohol on his breath. He denied it.Several people close to Mr. Nunberg said that he had struggled with sobriety on and off, and that contact from Mr. Mueller’s team had distressed him. According to two friends of Mr. Nunberg, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they did not want to discuss his personal life, Mr. Nunberg had appeared out of sorts in TV appearances for weeks. In January, he laughed off a bizarre and combative appearance on MSNBC by telling a friend who had asked him if he was drunk that he had been on cold medicine.Mr. Nunberg said on Tuesday that he had not been drinking, and that recounting his experience with the Trump campaign, one he said had been professionally devastating, had simply opened up old wounds on live television.But he said his appearances on Monday were also productive from a legal perspective: He said he ultimately decided to cooperate with Mr. Mueller’s investigation after a “very reasonable” lawyer who was on a televised panel with him had offered him legal advice.“I’m completely cooperating,” Mr. Nunberg said, adding that he had spent Tuesday going through documents he will hand over to Mr. Mueller.