Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s administration is reinterpreting its reinterpretation.In the five days since The New York Times reported that Mr. Cuomo had construed an executive order to enable himself to collect roughly $890,000 in campaign money from his appointees to state boards, the administration has insisted the order was never meant to apply to most board appointees.But its rationale, as well as its reading of the executive order, seems to be shifting.When first questioned about the donations last week, administration officials said they believed the order only barred donations from salaried state employees and board members who could be fired by the governor.On Tuesday, as the Democratic governor’s rivals criticized the practice, administration officials added a new caveat, saying for the first time that to be covered by the order, board members also had to be required to file financial disclosure reports to the Joint Commission on Public Ethics.The disclosure requirement, which does not appear in the order — and which Cuomo administration officials did not mention in a 30-minute call last Friday or in several written statements — would dramatically water down the directive, even from the administration’s first interpretation, freeing many more appointees to give cash to the governor’s campaign.So who is covered by the executive order?A Cuomo administration official said last Friday that it “shouldn’t be that difficult to come up with examples for you quickly,” noting that the state has more than 550 boards, and in excess of “2,000 appointees, or people serving in those positions.”But after days of requests, the administration has only identified a total of three boards that it said fall under the order’s purview: the Albany Convention Center Authority, the Capital Program Review Board at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the Occupational Safety and Health Hazard Abatement Board.The administration said it was not a comprehensive list.“Totally illogical, contorted, bizarre and nonsensical,” said John Kaehny, executive director of Reinvent Albany, a government watchdog group. “This is not a case where the language is unclear or the intent is unclear.”“For the governor’s office to come up with this up-is-down, down-is-up interpretation is totally not credible, and it undermines public trust in government,” he added. “And it’s nonsense.”Mr. Cuomo has taken fire from both Republicans and Democrats for his stance, with rivals and would-be opponents calling on him to return the roughly $890,000 in contributions from state appointees. Government reformers have urged the Legislature to put the executive order into law, where it would not be subject to interpretation.The governor’s campaign said it was returning $2,250 from one appointee whose giving violated the executive order, in the administration’s view.Mr. Cuomo’s press secretary, Dani Lever, defended the administration’s reading. She said the order was meant only to apply to “at will” appointees because it was designed to prevent employees from feeling pressure to donate to the governor.“A term appointment is guaranteed, so the person can’t feel pressure to be removed from the position,” Ms. Lever said.She also defended the newly revealed caveat about financial disclosures. “The order clearly references the Public Officers Law, and that is what we used to define policymaking boards, commissions, and instrumentalities,” she said.Ms. Lever acknowledged that the Cuomo administration had no written interpretation of the executive order before inquires from The Times; she said it was “historical practice” not to have such interpretation for the orders.Without a written policy, Ms. Lever said it was inadvertent last week that the administration said the order only applies to those “who do not take a salary”; virtually all members of all state board and commissions are unpaid. Ms. Lever issued a “clarification” that the administration never had that position and did not intend to say that.Ms. Lever also noted that no law prohibits the donations. “Our policy exceeds what any elected official in the state does, goes above the law and it is an undeniably good thing,” she said.The executive order was first put in place in 2007 by Eliot L. Spitzer, then the newly elected governor, as part of a package aimed at “eliminating politics from government decision-making.” He told The Times last week that he intended for the order to apply to all appointees (although a few still gave to him). Mr. Cuomo renewed a version of it the day he was sworn in.Some notable boards have adopted the Spitzer interpretation. For example, at the State University of New York, whose board members cannot be fired by the governor, the university’s counsel sent a memo stating that “the executive orders apply to State University Board members, appointees of the board, including presidents and system administration senior managers and employees of the State University who serve in management/confidential positions.”Two SUNY trustees are among those who have donated to Mr. Cuomo, one through a political action committee.Public authorities also have adopted that interpretation, even though few board members can be fired by the governor. According to information from the New York State Authorities Budget Office, only about a dozen authority board members would be covered by the order under the Cuomo administration’s new interpretation — and at least one of them is among those who have donated to the governor.That board member, Hilda Rosario Escher, an appointee to the state’s economic development authority, known as Empire State Development, donated $2,250 between October 2015 and last March.The Cuomo campaign said Tuesday that it would return Ms. Escher’s donation. Ms. Escher confirmed it had been returned.The Empire State Development board includes two other appointees who meet the governor’s interpretation: Howard Zemsky and Peter Beshar. Neither has donated while they have been on the board, but their wives have donated a combined $52,000 during their tenures. Ms. Escher’s husband also has donated $1,000.The Cuomo campaign declined to comment about whether it would return those contributions.Overall, the Times’ investigation found that in addition to the about $890,000 Mr. Cuomo has raised from his appointees while they hold state posts, he has collected $1.3 million from the spouses, children and businesses of those appointees.Nearly all of Mr. Cuomo’s current and would-be challengers to his 2018 re-election have seized on the issue, with most calling for him to return the donations.Stephanie Miner, the former mayor of Syracuse and a Democrat considering running against Mr. Cuomo, said Mr. Cuomo’s interpretation “violated both the spirit and the letter” of the order.“When you see these kinds of rhetorical games, they are dispiriting at best and at worst make people think you can’t trust anything anybody says,” she said. If she runs and is elected, Ms. Miner pledged not to raise money from her own appointees.State Senator John A. DeFrancisco, perhaps Mr. Cuomo’s best-known Republican challenger, pledged the same.“If you want to be the executive in chief of ending corruption, you at least have got to follow your own rules,” he said in a news conference on Monday outside Pennsylvania Station.Ms. Lever, the governor’s press secretary, attacked Mr. Cuomo’s political rivals, calling Ms. Miner “a pure hypocrite” who had taken money from her own appointees (Ms. Miner noted there is no order banning the practice in Syracuse) and saying the Senate has no policy forbidding its appointees from donating.“It’s amusing that DeFrancisco is mouthing an Eliot Spitzer ethics interpretation when both have demonstrated they can’t spell ‘ethics,’ let alone follow it,” Ms. Lever said.At one point Monday, Mr. DeFrancisco held up a printout of a disclaimer on Mr. Cuomo’s website saying that appointees were not allowed to donate.