Poor William Westmoreland. No one understood him. General Westmoreland’s forces and their South Vietnamese allies had fended off the attacks of National Liberation Front and North Vietnamese forces at the Vietnamese new year, Tet. He claimed victory. Alluding to Nazi Germany’s defeat in World War II, Westmoreland had compared the enemy at Tet to the Germans at the Battle of the Bulge. He considered the Liberation Front and the North Vietnamese on the ropes, and headed for defeat.So when he asked, after the fighting sputtered out at Hue and Khe Sanh, for more resources, he figured he was negotiating from a place of strength, exploiting his success. His initial requests were simply for accelerated equipment deliveries for the South Vietnamese military and additional aerial transportation resources to sustain the troops he had put at the combat base at Khe Sanh.What followed was a lesson in the unforeseen results of bureaucratic politics — a turn of events that would be funny, if it didn’t have such negative consequences for the American war effort. Within months, Westmoreland was reassigned, President Lyndon B. Johnson had withdrawn from the 1968 race and Washington had more or less soured on the pursuit of victory in Vietnam.In popular histories of this war, Westmoreland’s response to Tet was to overreach and request hundreds of thousands of additional troops at just the moment when America reached its breaking point. But what actually happened was more complex.When it came to troops, “Westy,” as the general was nicknamed, proved crafty. In his initial request, he avoided speaking of Americans at all; the commander of the “Free World Forces” in South Vietnam asked Johnson to approach South Korea and see if Seoul could be induced to send an additional light infantry division to Vietnam (it did).But the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Earle G. Wheeler, had different goals. He was less concerned about Westmoreland’s immediate priorities in Vietnam than with the state of America’s strategic reserves at home. The picture was indeed dire: By the time of Tet, apart from troops held for a Soviet attack in Europe, only the 82nd Airborne Division and parts of Marine divisions in the United States were left in reserve. Units all across the military had also been stripped of many specialists to properly support the Vietnam force.In response, Wheeler had been trying to get Johnson to approve mobilization of the Reserves for nearly a year, but Johnson had turned him down. Wheeler needed a fresh, big appeal. The Tet offensive gave him an opportunity.Early in February 1968 the chairman, in back-channel messages to Westmoreland, solicited requests for reinforcements, and told the field commander not to feel bound by previous — that is 1967 — force structure ceilings. Westy took the bait; his replies had initially asked for pretty much all the troops left in the strategic reserve as “emergency” reinforcements. Thus a bigger request, which could not be filled by active-duty forces, met Wheeler’s needs.Johnson approved the emergency augmentation on Feb. 12, the same day Westmoreland sent a dispatch looking ahead to new reinforcements on top of those, as Wheeler had invited him to do. Five days later Johnson went to Fort Bragg, N.C., to watch the Third Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division board planes, and then flitted across the country to Camp Pendleton, Calif., to watch a similar departure of Marines. There remained the question of the bigger troop request.Once the high point of the fighting had passed, Wheeler traveled to Vietnam, leaving on Feb. 21. He toured battlefields, met with South Vietnamese and American commanders; attended briefings at the headquarters of the Military Assistance Command, Vietnam; and conferred with Westmoreland. Together the two generals talked numbers, and they finally asked Johnson for 206,000 more troops for the American force in South Vietnam. (That request, as it happens, was almost identical to Westmoreland’s troop request called Program 5, in early 1967, which had already caught on the shoals of presidential reluctance.) Wheeler’s report to Washington, compiled as his jet winged eastward across the Pacific on Feb. 27, contained statistics on the recent fighting, covered American efforts to improve the South Vietnamese armed forces and argued in favor of the enlarged troop request.Though the request was secret, it was politically fraught. With public opposition to the Vietnam War mounting, a reserve mobilization would underline that Congress had never declared war, while other legal pillars, like the Tonkin Gulf Resolution, were increasingly shaky. Mobilization also meant increased military spending, with the American economy already overheated. Foresighted investors, wary of inflation, had now begun trading their dollars for gold. Johnson, who had previously sought a tax surcharge to pay for the war, had in front of him the example of Britain, which in 1967 had tried to meet its problems with a disastrous devaluation of the pound. Johnson had an election coming up in November 1968; he did not want to be seen as weak in the face of crisis, but he realized a big troop deployment coming after what had been represented as military victory would resonate poorly.At that point the ship of state sprang a leak. At a reception on March 1, 1968, Edwin L. Dale, a reporter with The New York Times’s Washington bureau, heard a college classmate say that top Pentagon officials were opposed to any big troop increase. (The received wisdom is that the official at the other end of this was Townsend Hoopes, under secretary of the Air Force.) So alerted, The Times put its State Department correspondent, Hedrick Smith, and its Pentagon watcher, Neil Sheehan, to work on the story.Smith needed less than a day to learn the number “206,000” from a Capitol Hill source. The two reporters garnered multiple confirmations, but more important to note is that they had the story quite quickly — Wheeler’s report had thudded onto Washington desks just five days before its secret was out. The reporters spent some days adding to their story and polishing it, and The Times pushed publication back a day to get the bigger play of a Sunday edition, and then there it was, in The New York Times of March 10, 1968.Simultaneous events were applying other pressures on the president. The reinforcement request immediately led the new secretary of defense, Clark M. Clifford, to demand an “A to Z” reassessment of the American position in Vietnam. While various draft memorandums for the president argued that the request could be met, they also warned of serious consequences, including budget increases in the billions, balance of payments shortfalls, new tax requirements, a Reserve call as steep as 262,000 men, bigger draft calls and monthly American casualties rates as high as 1,400 — nearly as extreme as Tet itself.Meanwhile the secretary of state, Dean Rusk, appeared before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee the day after revelation of the 206,000 troop request and faced fierce opposition, even from legislators who had been Johnson’s friends. The committee chairman, J. William Fulbright, Democrat of Arkansas, warned of all-out war and wanted Congress to be consulted before any big push. Senator Richard B. Russell, Democrat of Georgia, one of Johnson’s closest associates and the chairman of the Armed Services Committee, spoke of relying on air power and naval forces as opposed to ground forces — implying a pullback in troop commitments, not an increase.Then on March 12, in the New Hampshire primary, Senator Eugene McCarthy, the Democratic peace candidate from Minnesota, came within a few hundred votes of defeating Johnson. Considering the president had the complete cooperation of the Democratic Party machine, the result was stunning.These political signs, plus the disheartening Pentagon analysis of the reinforcement requests, left Johnson little choice — on March 13, he denied both the big troop request and an intermediate option, which the Pentagon had presented as a fallback. Instead, he approved just 24,200 Army troops, along with nearly 6,000 servicemen in Air Force and support units, over and above the 10,500 emergency reinforcements already sent to Vietnam.Several other consequences flowed from these events. They led Johnson into the reflections that persuaded him to drop his campaign to retain the presidency. Then he recalled Westmoreland from Vietnam, kicking him upstairs to become Army chief of staff.Westy never understood why the troop request came back to bite. As he would put it in a memoir, he was doing what any battlefield commander would do after a hard-fought victory: choosing the optimum time to commit the Reserves, when the enemy losses had opened the door to a powerful counterassault. His naïveté had proved his undoing: He never considered how his role as the optimistic leader throughout 1967 had set him up for a takedown when things went sideways.