This is the first part of an editorial series on nepotism in the White House. Read more on Jared Kushner’s role here, and on Ivanka Trump’s role here.Donald Trump has broken with so many conventions of the American presidency that it can be hard to track them all. Some of his supporters would argue that they elected him to explode outmoded Washington ways. But many of these conventions were meaningful curbs on presidential behavior and power.One of Mr. Trump’s most disturbing departures from tradition was his appointment of close relatives to positions at the very apex of government power. We are now seeing consequences of that ethical break, as the extraordinary access to government secrets of his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, has finally been constrained by White House officials concerned about his lack of full security clearance. Meanwhile, The Times has reported that Mr. Kushner’s family business has received loans from the companies of people with whom he met in the White House. The president’s repeated deployment of his daughter Ivanka as a diplomat has also come under heavy criticism.Mr. Trump was, of course, accustomed to relying on family members in the private sector, a world in which relatives can be literally reared in the business. A legacy of family control has helped sustain many private companies, including The New York Times. But it has never been embraced in public service by Americans, who left family governance behind when they rejected a monarchy to form the United States.Still, presidents throughout history have been tempted to hire their relatives, so much so that 50 years ago Congress finally passed a law forbidding such nepotism. (It was Mr. Trump’s opponent, Hillary Clinton, who helped set a precedent for family employment that the Trumps are now exploiting.)Mr. Trump’s dependence on relatives with no government experience has demonstrated the corrosive effect of such nepotism: Even an incompetent in-law can reject the directions of the most experienced staff members; access — the currency of government — is unchecked; dismissal is difficult no matter how deserved; and ethical standards are near-impossible to enforce.“The public will never be made to believe that an appointment of a relative is made on the ground of merit alone, uninfluenced by family views,” Thomas Jefferson warned. “Nor can they ever see with approbation offices, the disposal of which they entrust to their Presidents for public purposes, divided out as family property.”Almost from the beginning, presidents have struggled to reconcile this notion with their instinct to reward, and benefit from, familial loyalty. None has so blithely ignored this conflict as Mr. Trump.Public service can certainly be a family legacy in the United States, and name recognition is crucial to successful campaigns. So voters have proved willing to accept, or to be enticed by, a candidate’s family connections, from the Adamses, to the Roosevelts, to the Kennedys, to the Bushes, to the 2016 presidential primary featuring the brother and son of two former presidents and the wife of yet another. But Americans’ aversion to presidential nepotism has also been deep and lasting, even as presidents have tested it.Jefferson was furious when John Adams appointed his son John Quincy Adams, already an accomplished diplomat, as the nation’s first minister to Prussia. While even the younger Adams objected, his father retorted,  “The sons of Presidents have the Same Claim to Liberty, Equality and the benefit of the Laws with all other Citizens.”Until 1857, presidents paid for their own White House staffs, and many named relatives to these jobs. But after the assassination of James Garfield by a thwarted patronage seeker led to the creation of the Civil Service system in 1883, presidential relatives served chiefly as informal advisers and envoys because of popular revulsion with the spoils system.When critics said Franklin Roosevelt’s appointment of his son James as White House secretary in 1937 allowed the young Roosevelt to enrich himself in the insurance business, in consult with his father he released five years of tax returns to prove otherwise.It was John F. Kennedy’s appointment of his brother Robert as attorney general that led to the first antinepotism law, in 1967. It prohibited presidents and members of Congress from appointing or promoting relatives and spouses “in or to a civilian position in the agency in which he is serving or over which he exercises jurisdiction or control.”The Justice Department has cited that law in a half-dozen legal opinions that prevented Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama from appointing relatives to roles as minor as unpaid clerical assistant.In 1972, the Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel opined that the law “extends to any appointment to a ‘civilian position’ over which the president exercises jurisdiction or control” and that “it seems clearly applicable to subordinate positions on the White House staff.”The Justice Department again cited the 1967 law in blocking Mr. Carter’s plan to name his wife, Rosalynn, to lead a commission on mental health, even though first ladies have often been powerful informal advisers to their husbands.Then Bill Clinton pushed the boundaries between informal adviser and government employee by naming his wife, Hillary Clinton, to lead a White House task force on health care. There is no public evidence he sought the Justice Department’s opinion on the legality of the appointment. But when a lawsuit accused the administration of violating a federal law that requires presidential advisory committees with any nongovernmental members to make their records public,  the court maintained that Mrs. Clinton was in essence a federal employee, preventing the task force from being fully subject to the disclosure law.In a twist of history, the acceptance of Mrs. Clinton’s role handed her nemesis Donald Trump justification for putting his own relatives in power and running the White House like his private real estate business. In a January 2017 ruling, Daniel Koffsky, a career lawyer in the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, noted that the court said that Mrs. Clinton’s appointment to a White House position did not violate the antinepotism law. He also said that a 1978 statute governing White House appointments granted the president “special hiring authority,” a position many ethics experts criticized.The ruling allowed Mr. Trump to give his daughter Ivanka Trump and Mr. Kushner, her husband, White House offices and virtually unfettered access to the cabinet and world leaders.The couple’s many businesses offer foreign allies and adversaries a channel for seeking to influence American policy, fueling suspicion that the Trumps and Mr. Kushner are leveraging public office for private gain. The Washington Post reported on Tuesday that officials of at least four countries have discussed ways to manipulate the inexperienced Mr. Kushner by taking advantage of his family’s financial difficulties and business entanglements.Mr. Kushner’s family has tried to leverage his position, too. They broadcast his role in the administration as part of a real estate sales pitch in Beijing, touting a controversial program that grants foreigners American visas in exchange for investments in development projects. On the same day as Mr. Trump’s first meeting with President Xi Jinping of China — who was serenaded by the president’s grandchildren — Ms. Trump’s company was awarded three trademarks in the Chinese market.After the meeting, the Pangoal Institution, a Beijing think tank, described the Trump White House as a tribal battleground dominated by the “Trump family clan.” The New Yorker quoted the think tank’s assessment that the Trump family seems to “directly influence final decisions” on business and international relations in a way that “has rarely been seen in the political history of the United States.” The analysis used an ancient Chinese expression meaning “to treat the state as your possession,” a feudal concept of governance that conflicts with basic American principles.Appalling as it is, White House nepotism is only one element of Mr. Trump’s broader determination to install unqualified friends, patrons and political lackeys across the government.