This is the third part of an editorial series on nepotism in the White House. Read more on the history of nepotism and politics here, and on Jared Kushner’s role here.  When Ivanka Trump traveled to Pyeongchang, South Korea, to attend the Olympic closing ceremony, President Trump tweeted: “My daughter, Ivanka, just arrived in South Korea. We cannot have a better, or smarter, person representing our country.”“Why? Is there some rule against it?” a critic responded.The irony escaped the president, no doubt, since he was not embarrassed to send his daughter as the bookend of Kim Jong-un’s sister, who was dubbed “the Ivanka Trump of North Korea” when she made a splash at the opening ceremony. Giving a family member such a prominent role is natural for a fearful, insecure leader with autocratic impulses, just as it is for Mr. Kim.Yet no American president before Mr. Trump has given such an underqualified son or daughter a White House post, and Ms. Trump’s tenure demonstrates why. Her appointment as senior adviser affords Ms. Trump a global platform for her private clothing and beauty products business and personal brand. Ms. Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, hired a Hollywood publicist — who recently quit — to join them in the White House, and in soft-focus interviews, her books and social media feeds, she’s portrayed as a savvy entrepreneur who cares about women.Her supporters said she went to Washington to serve — as an advocate for liberal-leaning causes from the environment to human trafficking, and as a moderating influence on her father. In reality, the self-proclaimed “Daddy’s girl” followed her father to the White House for the same reason she followed him into Manhattan real estate, and onto the set of “The Apprentice”: because she’s a Trump. In her latest role, John Kelly, the White House chief of staff, privately accuses her of “playing government,” toggling between roles as presidential adviser and presidential daughter to suit herself.Ms. Trump has made a splash around the world. But what’s been her influence on American policy, and on her father?Ms. Trump took her job in Washington not long before the release of her book, “Women Who Work.” The  title echoes a hashtag created to sell Ivanka Trump-branded clothes and shoes. In the preface, Ms. Trump wrote that her father’s presidency provided her an opportunity to “advocate for change on a far greater scale than I’d ever imagined,” leading to new ideas “in the areas I am deeply passionate about, including the education and economic empowerment of women and girls; leveling the playing field for female entrepreneurs and job creators; and advancing the potential of women in our economy.”Ms. Trump declared paid family leave to be her signature domestic policy issue, and launched herself as a global advocate for women’s empowerment. She is omnipresent in White House meetings, on subjects from manufacturing employment to women in technology, and has conducted a charm offensive in Congress. She and Mr. Kushner invite legislators, lobbyists and C.E.O.s to their Washington home for off-the-record discussions of their agenda.During Mr. Trump’s first trip abroad in May, Ms. Trump raised eyebrows when she briefly represented her father at the Group of 20 meeting in Hamburg, taking a seat alongside Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. She was jeered when she called her father “a tremendous champion of supporting families” during a women’s entrepreneurship panel in Berlin. “Whom are you representing?” the moderator asked. “Your father as the president of the United States, the American people, or your business?”It’s an apt question. Ms. Trump chose a formal, unpaid administration role, requiring her to comply with federal conflict-of-interest and ethics rules. Yet she and Mr. Kushner have retained financial control of their businesses and have made repeated errors on federal financial disclosures. CNN reported Thursday that the F.B.I. is investigating one of Ms. Trump’s business deals, in Vancouver. Other projects she has spearheaded, from Azerbaijan to Manhattan, have raised legal questions as well. She hawked her book on Twitter, and has used public appearances to tout Ivanka Trump-branded jewelry and showcase Trump family businesses.Ms. Trump’s zeal for global renown has been exploited by foreign governments eager to curry favor with her father, just as her husband’s financial travails have been viewed as opportunities for influence. On the day Mr. Trump and the Kushners met with the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, China granted Ms. Trump’s company three trademarks in the giant Chinese market; other countries have done likewise.But where are Ms. Trump’s public policy successes? Language supporting paid family leave appeared in Mr. Trump’s initial budget blueprint, which went nowhere in Congress. There have been executive orders and working groups promoting women in technology, apprenticeships and job training, but no significant government funding, programs or legislation. Her White House detractors deride Ms. Trump’s causes as a “pet agenda,” vigorously opposed by the Republican base her father strives to satisfy.As Mr. Trump targeted undocumented immigrants, women, gay people and the poor, as he pulled out of the Paris climate agreement and tried repeatedly to deprive working families of health insurance under Obamacare, Ms. Trump defended herself, telling Gayle King, “I would say not to conflate lack of public denouncement with silence. … Where I disagree with my father, he knows it.” The interview earned her late-night-TV ridicule as “complicit” in her father’s atavistic policies. In another interview, Ms. Trump declared the Syrian refugee crisis a “global humanitarian crisis … we have to solve,” then evaded a question of whether her father’s travel ban, which, among other groups, specifically bars Syrian refugees from the United States, is part of the problem.Last summer Ms. Trump toured the nation cheerleading for tax cuts that penalize working families while enriching her own family. A child tax credit she favored failed a key Senate vote after she skipped the debate over it, instead traveling to  India for the Global Entrepreneurship Summit. After Mr. Trump blamed “many sides” for a violent neo-Nazi demonstration in Charlottesville, Va., in which a young counterprotester was killed, Ms. Trump, who converted to Judaism when she married Mr. Kushner, tweeted an anodyne rejection of “racism, white supremacy and neo-Nazis.” She said nothing more pointed than that about her father’s remarks, which caused C.E.O.s to bolt White House advisory boards.During an interview when she was in South Korea, , Ms. Trump was asked whether she believed women’s accusations of sexual misconduct and assault against her father. Ms. Trump, a senior presidential adviser who profits personally from her support for women’s empowerment, took umbrage. “I don’t think that’s a question you would ask many other daughters,” she said, before going on to say she believes “my father.”