DAYTON, Ohio — At Slyder’s Tavern, Matt Kazee, a machinist, drank a couple of beers as he waited for burgers to take home for dinner. His tab was about equal to the increase in his take-home pay after President Trump’s tax cut found its way into the nation’s paychecks.“I have seen a little uptick in my paycheck, about what I expected, about 30 bucks,” said Mr. Kazee, who voted for President Barack Obama in 2008 before backing Mr. Trump in the 2016 election. “It felt to me about like where things were 15 years ago.”His underwhelmed reaction was not what Republicans had in mind. The white working-class voters in the industrial Midwest who helped put Mr. Trump in the White House are now seeing the extra cash from the tax cut, the president’s signature domestic policy achievement and the foundation for Republican election hopes in November.But the result has hardly been a windfall, economically or politically. Other workers described their increase as enough for a week’s worth of gas or a couple of gallons of milk, with an additional $40 in a paycheck every two weeks on the high side to $2 a week on the low. Few are complaining, but the working class here is not feeling flush with newfound wealth.And some are convinced that what the tax cut has given them upfront will ultimately fade.“He’s pulling out jazz hands and shiny stuff up front and will screw us on the back end,” said Brian Barkalow, a worker at Requarth Lumber, where the Wright Brothers once bought wood for their planes.In 2016, Mr. Trump tapped into similar suspicions, particularly among white men who were crushed by the financial crisis and are clinging to jobs that are being transformed by technology and global competition. He narrowly won Montgomery County, in greater Dayton, the first Republican to do so since 1988.And Republicans will need those voters to return in the fall if they are to maintain control of Congress.The increase in take-home pay for Mr. Kazee was near the top among those for the more than two dozen workers interviewed — at the tavern, the lumberyard, a machine shop, a restaurant and a municipal building — about how the tax cut has affected them. Mr. Trump often spoke of how the average worker would receive $2,000 or more, but most workers said they did not expect anything close to that.“In the blue-collar world, it is about looking to get a little bit more at the end of the week,” said Shandy Cossell, who was seated near Mr. Kazee at Slyder’s, where every stool at the bar was filled, mostly with men who work with their hands. The dark wood and neon signs suggested another era in a place where blue-collar workers have been coming since Harry Truman was president.Several said they were most concerned about the rising cost of health care, and others questioned whether getting more money now would mean paying more later.The economy in the Dayton area, where the median household income is about $46,000, was crushed by the financial crisis, and manufacturing was hit particularly hard. In January 2010, the unemployment rate was 13.2 percent. It has dropped steadily since and is about 4.6 percent today.But the improved numbers do not tell the whole story. A major General Motors plant in Moraine closed in 2008, eliminating about 2,000 jobs. A Chinese-owned auto glass company has replaced it, with roughly the same number of jobs, but at half the pay.That kind of downward mobility affected smaller machine shops and general manufacturing, depressing wages and fueling the sense of grievance and resentment that led to Mr. Trump’s rise. “I think there needs to be a little more shame in the world,” Mr. Cossell said.Rob Wright, a strong supporter of Mr. Trump who works in a machine shop, said that the 30 additional dollars he is seeing in his paycheck is “30 a week that the government isn’t seeing.”“It’s just a little extra money I can count on,” he shrugged. “It’s not going to change my life.”For others at his machine shop, he said, “It’s a couple gallons of milk and loaves of bread to feed their kids.”At Requarth Lumber, on the edge of downtown, Matt Higgins paused after moving a load of wood onto a forklift. He said he backed Mr. Trump “only because I don’t trust Hillary.” The change in his paycheck is modest and difficult to calculate because his hours fluctuate, he said, but he knows one thing: “It’s definitely not going to change my life.”One of his younger co-workers, Mr. Barkalow, was more skeptical than thankful. He said he was concerned that he would end up owing more taxes next year. He noticed a small increase in his check. “It’s about gas money, but that’s about it,” said Mr. Barkalow, who did not vote for Mr. Trump.At Insignia, the sign company where Mr. Cossell works, Brandon Eifert helped him apply a banner to a Warped Wing Brewing Company truck. Mr. Eifert said he was anxious that a tax cut now might mean that he would not get a refund next year. “Is the tax break just giving you the money now instead of later?” he asked.“I used my taxes as a forced savings,” he said. When he received a refund, he would use the money to “go on a trip or buy something.” He estimated that the additional cash might be gas for a week, but it was not enough to take his girlfriend to a nice dinner.When asked which candidate he supported in 2016, Mr. Eifert said, “Regretfully now, I voted for Trump.”He said the president’s manner, more than his policies, put him off and he would not vote for him again. “It’s somewhat embarrassing to hear how he talks, tacky and uneducated.”His colleague April Sakach said she was thrilled with the extra $30 to $40 in her paycheck. “For me, every little penny counts,” she said.But it will not change her opposition to the president. “It doesn’t make me like him any more,” she said. “He just needs to do more to get me on his side. And I don’t know that he has it in him to do it.”She added, “I get speaking your mind, but you are the face of America, and you can’t do the things that he’s doing. It makes us look like a joke.”A few miles to the south, at Paradigm Industrial, a small-job machining and welding shop, the effect on personal finances appeared to be similar. Dan Neff said his wife paid the bills in the family, and she noticed an increase “right off.”It amounted to about $6 a week.“It’s lunch money,” he said. “Still, it is moving in the right direction.”He voted for the president and said he supported Mr. Trump “to the greatest degree.”His co-worker, Dan Marker, was not so sure.“It’s always nice to get a few more dollars in the pocket,” Mr. Marker said. But, he added, “probably my bigger concern here is that if Washington cuts taxes, fine, what services are they going to do without?”Back at Slyder’s, Al Yarcho, 63, who has been retired for five years, is not a beneficiary of the tax cut, but he expressed worry about its consequences for the nation’s finances and entitlement programs.