FRONT PAGEA map with an article on Monday about tipping in the restaurant industry misstated New York State’s highest hourly minimum wage for tipped workers. It is $8.65, not $2.90.NATIONALAn article on Tuesday about complaints filed against White House officials for apparent violations of the Hatch Act described incorrectly the process by which such violations are punished. The decision to punish White House officials for violating the Hatch Act is made by the president or the Office of Special Counsel, which can request that the Merit Systems Protection Board take disciplinary action. It is not the case that cabinet secretaries play a role in deciding how and whether to discipline violators of the law.BUSINESS DAYAn article on Tuesday about self-piloted electric planes being tested in New Zealand misstated the wingspan of the Cora aircraft. It is 36 feet, not 12 feet.SPORTSAn article on Tuesday about teams capable of causing upsets in the N.C.A.A. tournament misstated the surname of a Loyola player. He is Clayton Custer, not Cluster.THE ARTSAn article on Tuesday about the electronic music duo Mouse on Mars misspelled the given name of the leader of the band Beirut. He is Zach Condon, not Zac.WEEKEND ARTSA jazz entry in the Listings pages on Friday about Kurt Elling’s performance at Birdland misspelled the names of two of the members of Kurt Elling’s band. Marquis Hill, not Marcus Hill, will play trumpet; Stu Mindeman, not Stu Minderman, will play piano and the Hammond B3.OPINIONAn article on Monday about the early arrival of spring misspelled the title of a book by Ernest Hemingway. It is “A Moveable Feast,” not “A Movable Feast.”Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.