Ricky Gervais examines his own ability to generate controversy in a new Netflix special. And “The Shape of Water” is streaming.RICKY GERVAIS: HUMANITY on Netflix. “I don’t know why I called it that, I’m not a big fan,” the British comedian Ricky Gervais says of the title of his new Netflix special. Mr. Gervais, a seasoned stand-up comic, is known to American audiences both as a sharp-tongued Golden Globes host and as a creator and star of shows including “Extras,” “Life’s Too Short” and the British version of “The Office.” In the special, he takes on issues including Twitter, wigs and his own brushes with controversy.THE SHAPE OF WATER (2017) on iTunes and Amazon. Accepting the Academy Award for best director this month, Guillermo del Toro expressed surprise and delight that, when he pitched the idea for this film, his distributor thought that “a fairy tale about an amphibian god and mute woman done in the style of Douglas Sirk” was a sure bet. The movie stars Sally Hawkins as Elisa, a mute janitor in a government research lab in the 1960s. When a mermanlike creature (Doug Jones) is brought into the lab, Elisa develops a connection to him that blossoms into a romance. The cast also includes Richard Jenkins, Octavia Spencer, Michael Shannon and Michael Stuhlbarg, and the film also won the Academy Awards for best picture, production design and score. In his review for The New York Times, A. O. Scott wrote that “the most welcome and notable thing about ‘The Shape of Water’ is its generosity of spirit.”ICARUS (2017) on Netflix. For another Academy-lauded film, see Bryan Fogel’s sports doping documentary, which won best documentary this year. Initially conceived as a film about steroid use, the movie begins with Mr. Fogel by injecting himself with performance-enhancing drugs to see how hard it would be to not get caught. This brings him into contact with Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, a Russian doctor who, we now know, helped operate a state-run Olympic doping program. When Dr. Rodchenkov comes under investigation, Mr. Fogel shifts the focus from doping itself to the doctor, who flees Russia out of fear for his own safety. “Mr. Fogel could be considered either daring or foolhardy for his initial plan,” Ken Jaworowski wrote in his review for The Times. “But his work with Dr. Rodchenkov is levelheaded, and his documentary illuminating.”THE PIZZA SHOW 7 p.m. on Viceland. Across the lake and down the highway from the toppings-in-the-middle deep-dish pizzas of Chicago, Detroit pizza has a crunchy crust and a distinctive rectangular shape. In this episode of Viceland’s pizza-focused travel show, the host and pizza connoisseur Frank Pinello (who also owns Best Pizza in Brooklyn) scours the Motor City for the best slices.