New York is probably the birthplace of two of the most important contributions to basketball. The first, born in a Brooklyn hospital in 1963, is Michael Jordan. The second, born in a Staten Island bar 14 years later, is widely considered to be the first March Madness pool.March Madness doesn’t refer so much to the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament, the annual 68-team competition that crowns the best college team, as it does to the atmosphere around it, a national inferno of passion stoked by tens of millions of brackets religiously, incorrectly filled out by college basketball fans.Jody Haggerty, whom many credit with creating the March Madness pool, owned the Irish bar Jody’s Club Forest. In early March of 1977, he had the idea to print out the tournament pairings, asking some customers to select their favorites for a $10 fee; by 2006, the pool had grown so large that the winner took home $1.5 million. The next year, Mr. Haggerty ended the legendary pool after pleading guilty to federal tax evasion charges. He died in 2016.School and regional pride fuel part of the intense national interest in the tournament. So does money dedicated to brackets; millions of fans gamble on the tournament, helping to create billions in revenue that never reaches the players. Offices, posses, and families all over the country participate in competitions of their own.Some pools have grown so large that organizers have become fearful of the wrath of the I.R.S. I spoke to three such New York-based commissioners who over the course of 10 years or more organized pools of hundreds of members and worth thousands of dollars. None wanted to be identified for fear of attracting the attention of the Feds.Last weekend, Long Island University-Brooklyn upset Wagner College in the Northeast Conference championship to win an automatic berth to the tournament. Undoubtedly one of the worst teams in the national tournament, L.I.U.-Brooklyn was drawn in last Tuesday’s play-in game against a small school in Virginia called Radford University. It was the first game of the tournament. The winner would go on to join the rest of the field on Thursday as a 16th seed.And so it was that the madness of 2018 unofficially tipped off at Bounce Sporting Club, a sports bar in Manhattan’s Flatiron district, where L.I.U.-Brooklyn’s Alumni Association had organized a watch party. John Vasquez, one of Bounce’s investors, graduated from L.I.U.-Brooklyn in 1996.“They’re going to keep it close, and then they’re going to take over in the second half,” Mr. Vasquez said early in the contest. “And then they’re going to play Villanova on Thursday.”Villanova is seeded first in the East Region. Mr. Vasquez said he planned to pick his alma mater when he filled out his bracket.“It’s March Madness because it’s Upset Madness,” he said. “All you need is momentum.”It was wishful thinking that highlighted a vital, tragic point. Mr. Vasquez hadn’t even filled out his bracket yet; picks didn’t have to be finalized until Thursday. Not to mention that a 16th seed has never beaten a first seed in the tournament’s 79 years of existence.Bounce is usually bursting with attractive young locals looking to be seen, drink and dance. During big sports events like the basketball tournament, a line of hopeful patrons can snake down the street, and the atmosphere inside can be electric, even oppressive. For this game, however, the cavernous bar was mostly empty, save for about two dozen alumni mingling and munching on wings, kebabs and fries in a reserved back area. For virtually everyone but these fans, March Madness had yet to begin.Howard and Beverly Adelson drove down from New Rochelle, in Westchester, to watch the game. At halftime, with L.I.U.-Brooklyn down three, they lounged on a couch drinking beers.“I got an email,” Mr. Adelson said. “I thought, What better way to watch the game?”Mr. Adelson played guard for L.I.U.-Brooklyn from 1963 until he graduated in 1967. Ms. Adelson graduated in 1968, the year they married.“We thought there’d be more basketball alumni here,” Ms. Adelson admitted.Mr. Adelson was happy enough with the berth. “It’s a tribute to the coach,” he said approvingly. He fills out a bracket with his son every year. This year, he picked Virginia to win it all. He didn’t expect L.I.U.-Brooklyn to get past Villanova.Neither, really, did Andrew Zarick, who graduated L.I.U.-Brooklyn in 2007 and founded a tech start-up. He just recently moved to New Jersey after 14 years in Brooklyn, but he’s from Louisville, Ky. He said he catches only one or two L.I.U.-Brooklyn games a year, but participates in two small pools to keep in touch with his Louisville and college friends.“In one bracket, I have Villanova winning it,” he said. “In one I have Michigan.”Terry Dayle, a computer programmer from Brooklyn, dropped out of L.I.U.-Brooklyn in the ’90s, but went back to finish his accounting degree in 2010. “I’m spiritually 1994,” he said.In the second half, L.I.U.-Brooklyn kept it close. When asked who he thought would win, Mr. Dayle sighed. Radford, he said, reminded him of the 1980s Detroit Pistons. Teams would draw to within three points, but the Pistons would execute and eventually pull away. He finished his explanation three and a half minutes into the half, just before L.I.U.-Brooklyn took a three-point lead.“Guess I was wrong,” he said. He doesn’t watch many L.I.U. games. He doesn’t often fill out tournament brackets, either. “I’m never right.”Usha Narasimhan graduated from L.I.U. Post, in Long Island, in 1999. She doesn’t follow college basketball, but she decided to show up.“I’m a proud alum,” she said. “I got the email and said, ‘Hey, why not?’”Ms. Narasimhan chatted with a co-worker through the game. The alums made for a muted, distracted viewing party. They took group photos and caught up with one another as momentum seesawed between teams.But with just over five minutes left, Radford led by three, and the viewing party grew quiet and tense. Terry Williams, a football fan who graduated from L.I.U.-Brooklyn in 1982, slammed his hand on the table when an L.I.U.-Brooklyn player missed a free throw. With under three remaining, a Radford forward made a turnaround jumper in the paint to put Radford in the lead, 66-59.“He walked,” Mr. Williams weakly pleaded. “He walked.”