 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Here’s what you need to know:• The North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, has said that his country is willing to begin talks with the U.S. on giving up its nuclear weapons, South Korean officials said today.Pyongyang would also suspend all nuclear and missile tests during any dialogue with Washington.• If the South Korean statement is corroborated, it would be the first time that Mr. Kim has indicated a willingness to negotiate away his nuclear weapons in return for security guarantees from the U.S.• President Trump remains committed to his plan to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, undeterred by warnings from Republican leaders, including the House speaker, Paul Ryan, that the move could start a global trade war.Mr. Trump suggested on Monday, however, that Canada and Mexico could be exempt if they agreed to a “new & fair” version of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which is being renegotiated. Here’s a guide to what the tariffs could mean.• The president’s decision appears to be inspired by the widening U.S. trade deficit, but most economists don’t share his concern.• President Trump once vowed to achieve peace in the Middle East by not playing favorites between Israel and the Palestinians.That hope now seems as distant as ever. On Monday, he and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu lavished praise on each other at the White House. The president said he might travel to Jerusalem in May when the U.S. Embassy transfers there.The Palestinians are no longer on speaking terms with Mr. Trump, who has cut aid to them.• While Mr. Netanyahu was in Washington, another former aide agreed to testify against him in a corruption scandal that threatens to end the prime minister’s career.• President Xi Jinping of China has arguably done more than any of his predecessors to create a public persona of a firm yet adoring patriarch.But it’s striking how little is known about him.• Our correspondent in Beijing tried to pull back the curtain, as the government plans constitutional changes to allow Mr. Xi to remain in power indefinitely.• Judge Dan Aaron Polster faces one of the most daunting legal challenges in the U.S.: resolving more than 400 lawsuits against central figures in the drug epidemic, including makers of prescription painkillers, their distributors and pharmacy chains.He has made clear he wants a settlement by the end of the year. Many lawyers are skeptical.• “These are bold things for a judge to say, and it’s exciting and intriguing to follow,” a law professor at Yale said. “But to say that his goals are ambitious would be an enormous understatement.”• Sam Nunberg.The former Trump campaign aide was the talk of cable TV news and social media after he gave a series of odd interviews on Monday about having been called to appear before a grand jury in the special counsel’s Russia investigation. (Read his subpoena here.)Mr. Nunberg wavered about whether he would appear on Friday as ordered, and his on-air behavior led one CNN host to ask if he’d been drinking.• Separately, we checked in with Kellyanne Conway, who has defied the odds and thrived at the White House even after other high-profile aides left.• Broadcom’s efforts to buy Qualcomm may have been stymied, as U.S. officials said the Singapore firm’s bid could pose a national security risk.• Bad news for ABC: The Academy Awards attracted a record low 26.5 million viewers on Sunday, almost 20 percent fewer than last year.• James Pitaro, an executive at Walt Disney, was named president of ESPN.• Washington has embraced net neutrality. Washington State, that is.On Monday, Gov. Jay Inslee signed into law the most sweeping state action so far against divisive new federal rules that change how internet providers handle data.• “Last chance travel”: Tour operators are catering to the growing number of people who want to experience local cultures and natural habitats before they vanish.• U.S. stocks were up on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Here’s how to tell people you’ve stopped drinking.• Do that thing you keep putting off.• Recipe of the day: Tired of the usual chicken dinner? Try a stir-fry with ketchup.• A road trip in QuebecDan Bilefsky recently returned to his hometown, Montreal, to write about Canada for The Times.Next week, he begins a journey across Quebec, and he wants your tips for where to go and what to do.• The new vanguardMarch is Women’s History Month. Some of The Times’s book critics compiled a list of 15 titles by women that are shaping the way we read and write fiction in the 21st century.• Today’s number: 1,610That’s the number of people in the U.S. who were killed in encounters with animals from 2008 to 2015.Of that number, 478 were killed by hornets, wasps and bees, and 272 by dogs.• Best of late-night TVStephen Colbert had some advice for Sam Nunberg, a former Trump campaign aide, who worried during a TV interview that his lawyer was going to “dump” him: “Sam, I think your dentist is going to dump you right now.”• Quotation of the day“This is a purely commercial dispute that just spun out of control.”— Orestes Fintiklis, the majority owner of a hotel in Panama City that won a legal battle to have the Trump Organization removed as managers of the property.• The Times, in other wordsHere’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.For today’s back story, we’re introducing what we hope will become a regular feature, courtesy of our friends at The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay.Each week, the column’s editor, Deb Amlen, will highlight the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles. Please let us know how you like it.This week’s word: Sazerac.It has appeared in the Times Crossword only three times over the past few years, most recently in  Friday’s puzzle.The Sazerac is a 180-year-old cocktail based on rye and bitters. Even if you don’t imbibe, it’s a fun name to say.The story of the drink begins in mid-19th century New Orleans, where an apothecary owner, Antoine Amedie Peychaud, treated his friends to brandy toddies containing a French brandy called Sazerac and a dash of bitters made from a secret family recipe.By 1850, the Sazerac became the first “branded” cocktail, and in 1873, the brandy was replaced by American rye whiskey, with a dash of absinthe.Over the years, Herbsaint, another anise-flavored pastis, has been used in place of absinthe and the “official” Sazerac recipe was modified to use Sazerac Kentucky Straight Rye Whiskey.Our Cooking section also features a version made with absinthe._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.Check out our full range of free newsletters here.